[GEP-19] Integrate long-term Prometheus deployment into `Garden` controller (#9606)
gardener/gardener: docs/concepts/operator.md

    port: metrics
```

###### Long-Term Prometheus

> `gardener-operator` deploys another Prometheus instance in the `garden` namespace (called "Long-Term Prometheus") which federates metrics from [Garden Prometheus](#garden-prometheus).

Reviewer: Nit: Non-native speaker here, but I would have expected `term` to be lower case as in `Long-term Prometheus`.

> Its purpose is to store those with a longer retention than Garden Prometheus would (it is not possible to define different retention periods for different metrics in Prometheus, hence, using another Prometheus instance is the only option).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its purpose is to store those with a longer retention than Garden Prometheus would. It is not possible to define different retention periods for different metrics in Prometheus, hence, using another Prometheus instance is the only option.
```

> This Long-Term Prometheus also has an additional [Cortex](https://cortexmetrics.io/) sidecar container for caching some queries to process faster processing times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Long-Term Prometheus also has an additional [Cortex](https://cortexmetrics.io/) sidecar container for caching some queries to achieve faster processing times.
```

> If you would like to extend the configuration for this Long-Term Prometheus, you can create the [`prometheus-operator`'s custom resources](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator?tab=readme-ov-file#customresourcedefinitions) and label them with `prometheus=longterm`, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extend the configuration of the Long-Term Prometheus, you can create the [`prometheus-operator`'s custom resources](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator?tab=readme-ov-file#customresourcedefinitions) and label them with `prometheus=longterm`, for example:
```
